Created initial concept for templates and assets #3518 (#3519)
mercedes-benz/sechub: sechub-doc/src/docs/asciidoc/documents/shared/concepts/concept_templates_and_assets.adoc

dedicated error message must be returned to user and the PDS job will always fail.
====

===== Asset storage
The assets are initially stored in {sechub} database, together with the asset file checksum.

When a template is used inside a  {sechub} configuration, the {sechub} start mechanism will 
check if the file from database is already available at storage (S3/NFS) which represents
a cache for the assets.

If available the, the cached part will be used. Otherwise it will be uploaded
(see  <<sechub-concept-asset-upload-lazy,{sechub} lazy asset upload to storage>> )

[TIP]
====
Main reason why we store always in DB and use storage (S3/NFS) as a cache only:

1. Restore a DB backup on a fresh installation:  +
   Administrators can just apply the database backup and everything works again
2. Storage could be volatile/be deleted etc. (we rely to the database)
3. For having two clusters ( {sechub} and {pds} having not same database we need
   a way to exchange.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using templates and assets it is necessary to reuse {sechub} storage by {pds} 
solutions and not to provide own storage for {pds}. Diffeent storages are not supported here.
====

`/assets/$assetId/`

> An asset id has

Author: Yes I will add this later when writing the validator in code.

If the {pds} uses its own storage (which should NOT be done for production, but only
for PDS solution development) the assets must be uploaded directly to the PDS storage 
location! 
====

===== SecHub template and asset handling
====== Validation
When a {sechub} job starts and there is a template data definition inside the configuration, 
{sechub} will validate if the project has a template assigned for the location inside
the configuration. e.g. templates with type `webscan-login` may only be defined inside 
web scan login configuration).

If this validation fails, the complete {sechub} job will fail and stop processing.

[[sechub-concept-asset-upload-lazy]]
====== Upload in storage as cache lazily
When validation did not fail, {sechub} will check if the asset is already uploaded to
storage (S3/NFS) already.

When not uploaded to storage, the file will be uploaded before the job is further processed.

====== Template PDS parameter calculation
If validation and lazy uploaded did not fail, {sechub} will calculate a
{pds} parameter : `pds.template.metadata` with JSON (see parameter syntax for details).

.PDS parameter syntax for template meta data 
[source,json]
----
{

>     "template-metadata" : [{//<1>

Author: I think, I will move all json parts later to separate json files which can be autoformatted to avoid such problems.

        {
            "template" : "single-singon", //<2>
            "type: "webscan-login",//<3>
            "assets" : [ //<4>
                {
                    "id" : "asset-id-1", //<5>
                    "sha256" : "434c6c6ec1b0ed9844149069d7d45ac18e72505b" //<6> 
                }
            ]
        }]
    }     
}

----
<1> Meta data array
<2> Template identifier - just as an information for logging etc.
<3> Template type
<4> Asset information array
<5> ID of the asset, necessary for storage download

> <6> checksum of the asset ZIP file, necessary to check after download

Reviewer: In the example above there were multiple .zip files - each with its own checksum file.

What about just one .zip and checksum file per asset-id?
This would simplify things (also for the SecHub administrators)...

===== PDS asset handling
{sechub} calls {pds}, with {pds} parameter `pds.template.metadata` (syntax is described above).

The {pds} intance will fetch all wanted asset ZIP file for the current product 
from storage (S3 or NFS) and extract it to `$workspaceFolder/assets/`. 

Before extraction is done a checksum for the downloaded ZIP file is created and compared
with the checksum from template meta data. If it is different the {pds} job will fail
with a dedicated error message.

> If checksum wer evalid, the assets ZIP file will be unzipped below a subfolder with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the checksum is valid, the assets ZIP file will be unzipped below a subfolder with the 
```

template type:
 
[source,text]
----
`$workspaceFolder/
     assets/
        $template-type/
                    ...
----

An example:

The `MY_PRODUCT.zip` file contains

[source,text]
----
/script.js
/development/
             debug-settings.json
----

and the template meta data looks like this:

[source,text]
----

> {

Reviewer: This JSON differs from the example in line 194ff. (e.g. template-metadata is a list there)
I suggest to omit the JSON code here and refer to 194ff.

Author: I will apply the changes later while implementing the parameter model data.
